Updated Azure Extensions homepage, Created new Getting Started page (#7520)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/azure/gettingstarted.md

---
Order: 2
Area: azure
TOCTitle: Extensions
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code Azure Extensions Getting Started
ContentId:
MetaDescription: Visual Studio Code Azure Extensions Getting Started guide for developers
DateApproved: 08/21/2024
---
# Azure Tools FAQ

> This guide is specifically designed for Azure Tools within VS Code. It provides essential tips for getting started, writing code, deploying applications, troubleshooting with logs, utilizing Azure resources, and effectively navigating your code within VS Code.

Author: Added this

## Write Code

Save time with these features: efficiently create and manage Azure resources, organize files and deploy easier, customize to align with your workflow, and seamlessly create Azure resources from installed extensions directly within VS Code.

**Resource and Workspace views** Use the Resources explorer to create and manage Azure resources. Use the Workspace explorer to create files and deploy.

**Grouping** Change the way resources are grouped to fit your workflow.

**Create Resources** Create an Azure resource from your installed extensions directly in VS Code.

## Troubleshooting

Quickly locate and review detailed log information, access your recent activities, and easily manage the resources you've recently created.

**Find logs.** The Output Channel displays textual information such as logs, messages, and other information. Use Ctrl+Shift+U to show Output.

**Tip:** More verbose log info is found in the Output Channel.

**Access resources.** View all of your recent activities and quickly access resources you've recently created in the **Activity Log**.

## Next steps

> * [More on Workspaces](/docs/editor/workspaces.md) - Learn how to configure settings that only apply to a specific folder or folders.

Reviewer: Reevaluate the next steps. For someone getting started with the Azure Tools, information about workspaces might not  be the most relevant first next step.

![Explorer view](images/extensions/explorer.png)

## Get started

Streamline your workflow by quickly searching for commands, settings, and keyboard shortcuts, eliminating the need to navigate through multiple menus.

**Navigate to Azure view.** Click on the Azure icon in the sidebar to open the Azure Resources view. Once you're signed in, the Resources view will display all your existing resources. You can create and manage these services right from VS Code.

![Azure icon](images/extensions/azure-icon.png)

**Search with the Command Palette.** The most important key combination to know is **Ctrl+Shift+P** because it brings up the Command Palette. It is your starting point for access to all functionality within VS Code including commands, keyboard shortcuts, and opening files.

![Command palette](images/extensions/command-palette.png)

> **Open folders.** A Visual Studio Code *workspace* is the collection of one or more folders that are opened in a VS Code window (instance). In most cases, you will have a single folder opened as the workspace. You can open a workspace by using the **File > Open Folder...** menu, and then selecting a folder. However, depending on your development workflow, you can include more than one folder, using an advanced configuration called Multi-root workspace.

Reviewer: Not sure if this is relevant for users in this context? Suggest to keep this out and make sure to have the reference to the VS Code tutorial for users new to VS Code (see above).

**Review settings.** To edit or review your current settings in VS Code, use **Ctrl+**, to open Settings. It is helpful to review settings that any of the extensions may contribute.

> **Identify and customize keyboard shortcuts.** Find the list of all the assigned [VS Code shortcuts](https://code.visualstudio.com/shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-windows.pdf).

Reviewer: Not relevant in this context, unless there are Azure Tools specific keybindings? Refer new users to the tutorial.

Author: There are specific keybindings and we recently ran into an issue with this because customers didn't know there'd be a conflict between keybindings.

> **Redisplay notifications.** You can right-click the bell icon in the bottom right of the Status Bar in VS Code to see missed notifications.

Reviewer: Not specific to Azure Tools, unless there are some notifications the users can't ignore and needs to look back into?

Author: We often hear from customers that notifications disappear too quickly, not realizing they can go back and find them.

> **Make VS Code more accessible.** VS Code has built-in accessibility features that are compatible with screen readers and other assistive technologies. See [Accessibility](/docs/editor/accessibility.md) for the full list of available features.

Reviewer: Not relevant in this context. Suggest to leave it out to this getting started guidance focused on the Azure Tools.

> ## Write Code

Reviewer: The title of this section and the actual contents don't seem to match. Also, the individual topics don't really provide a lot of getting started guidance, but rather list some capabilities.

**Open folders.** A Visual Studio Code *workspace* is the collection of one or more folders that are opened in a VS Code window (instance). In most cases, you will have a single folder opened as the workspace. You can open a workspace by using the **File > Open Folder...** menu, and then selecting a folder. However, depending on your development workflow, you can include more than one folder, using an advanced configuration called Multi-root workspace.

**Review settings.** To edit or review your current settings in VS Code, use (`kb(workbench.action.openSettings)`), to open the Settings editor. It is helpful to review settings that any of the extensions may contribute.

> **Identify and customize keyboard shortcuts.** Find the list of all the assigned [VS Code shortcuts](https://code.visualstudio.com/shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-windows.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Identify and customize keyboard shortcuts.** You can use the Keyboard Shortcuts editor (`kb(workbench.action.openGlobalKeybindings)`) to find and configure keyboard shortcuts in VS Code. Get more info about [Keyboard Shortcuts editor](/docs/getstarted/keybindings.md#keyboard-shortcuts-editor).
```
